---
layout: "@layouts/MDPage.astro"
title: "Now"
date: 2025-03-31
---

This is my [/now](https://nownownow.com) page and is something I got inspired
from [Derek Sivers](https://sive.rs/now). The idea is to write something short,
something “you’d tell a friend you hadn’t seen in a year.”

Last Update: March 2025

## Where I am

I am still living in the Den Haag, Netherlands, together with my wonderful wife
Sarah. Trying to make a new website while participating in the [Full-Stack
TypeScript & React Bootcamp](https://bootcamp.dev) from Flavio Scopes.

## What I am doing

It took ages to update my website, the last update was probably sometime last
year when I recreated the page with [Hugo](https://gohugo.io). But I'm not happy
with Hugo, so I'm going to try something new. This time I created my website
with [Astro](https://astro.build). It's a site generator written in
TypeScript, and togethe rwith Tailwind CSS, it is a great combination.

In my more or less 9-to-5 job, I'm a software engineer and I'm trying to get
into DevSecOps. We use Java, TypeScript and Python to make software for our
customers. We set up services in Docker and Kubernetes for our internal
development team to keep them happy.

## Getting fit

Since last September, we have a Running Pad at home and I am doing well in terms
of fitness. As well as trying to run at least 20 km each week, I can fold it and
also move it under my desk and walk while I work. It was one of the best
decisions we made at the end of last year.

## What I am reading

Currently I am reading the Bootcamp script and the [TypeScript
Handbook](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/intro.html). I am also
reading [Clean
Code](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/clean-code-a/9780136083238/)
book to get a better understanding of how to write clean code.

When I have some spare time, I am reading through Derek Sivers [Book How to
Live](http://sive.rs/h). _A masterpiece. The best thing he's ever made._ I have
to say it definitivly has 27 conflicting answers. Did not get to the conclusion
yet.

I also started with [Kill Decision from Daniel Suarez](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kill_Decision). I don't know if I can
finish it, as I am not a regular reader and it is a bit difficult get back into
the story when you have to put it down for a while.
