---
title: "Mac Setup"
pubDate: 2025-03-30 18:00:00
modDate: 2025-03-30
tags: ["mac", "setup"]
description: "Setting up a new 15\" MacBook Air (M4) for development, including macOS settings, Homebrew installations, and post-setup checks."
---

I couple days ago I received my new [15" MacBook Air with the
M4 processor](https://www.apple.com/de/macbook-air/) in Midnight color. It is fantastic!

It is light, fast and looks really good.
Yes, you might see some fingerprints on it,
especially on the keyboard,
but this seems to be a common issue with all laptops these days.
The keyboard in my MacBook Pro M1 Pro also looks used
as I ave been typing on it for more than two and a half years now.

The main reason why I switch from the MacBook Pro
to the MacBook Air
is that the Air is lighter,
easier to travel with
and has a better battery life.
Apple also made a very nice offer
for turning the MacBook Pro in.

So without further ado,
here is how I set up my new MacBook Air.

This time I am using Homebrew bundles and Ansible to set this up.
I can't share individual Ansible playbooks,
but I can share the Homebrew bundle files.
I will also describe the process of setting up macOS.

The first thing of course is to finish the setup of macOS after first start.
Here are my settings I go through:

- For the accounts, I have one for iCloud and one for the App Store.
- I enable location services.
- I disable analytics
- I enable Siri and Apple Inteeligence. Curious to find out, what I can do at
  the moment.
- I disable sharing Siri Audio Recordings.
- I enable FileVault. If this does not come up, you can go to System
  Preferences > Privacy & Security > FileVault and turn it on there later.

## Next I have some settings in macOS

Before installing all the software that I need,
I go through the system settings
and change a couple of them to my likings.

Next thing I do is,
that I go through the settings
and change a couple of them to my likings.
In `Privacy & Security` under Location Services,
I access the "Details" of System Services
where I turn off `Significant locations`
and turn on `Show location icon in Control Center`.

Still in Privacy & Security,
open the `Analytics & Improvements` part.
Some people do
but I do not want to share my anaylytics with Apple.
I switch them all off.

Under General,
navigate to Software Update,
click the "Info Icon"
and ensure that `Download new updates when available`
and `Install Security Responses and system files` are checked.

You can or should,
look at the `Accessibility > Audio > Headphone Accommodations` settings.
Here you can customize the audio for supported Apple headsets
by adjusting the settings below
or through a Custom Audio Setup.

There might be more settings you can change
so it is a good thing to explore the System Settings a bit more.
Maybe you find things you want to change.
Some of them I listed below.

## Apps to check out

Apple has introduced a new password App calles `Passwords`.
I am still using [Bitwarden](https://bitwarden.com),
and have to play a bit more with this new app.
But it is something you should check out and configure.

Check the tiling functionality under `Desktop & Dock`.
In the past, I've used [Rectangle](https://rectangleapp.com)
and I'm happy we've finally gotten a more or less good replacement built-in.
With [window tiling keyboard shortcuts](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/mac-help/mchl9674d0b0/mac),
you can move windows around very easily.
Hint: When you hover over the green button of your window to see the tiling options,
you can press the `Alt` key to see even more positioning options.

## Software Installation with Homebrew

Beside the System Settings
I have a [Brewfile](https://docs.brew.sh/Brew-Bundle-and-Brewfile)
which I use to install most of my software.

```ruby
# The Brewfile
# last update 2025-03-29
#

# Core tools
brew "bat"
brew "croc"
brew "eza"
brew "fd"
brew "fzf"
brew "git"
brew "wget"
brew "rclone"


# Productive Tools
brew "yt-dlp"

# JavaScript / TypeScript
brew "node"
brew "node@22"
# Deno and Bun are installed via ansible playbook

# Python
brew "python@3.13"

# System / Networking
brew "htop"
brew "btop"
brew "iftop"
brew "neofetch"

# Casks
cask "bambu-studio"
cask "bitwarden"
cask "deepl"
cask "discord"
cask "docker"
cask "firefox"
cask "font-cousine-nerd-font"
cask "font-cousine"
cask "font-fira-code-nerd-font"
cask "font-fira-code"
cask "font-fira-mono-for-powerline"
cask "font-fira-mono-nerd-font"
cask "font-fira-mono"
cask "font-fira-sans-condensed"
cask "font-fira-sans-extra-condensed"
cask "font-fira-sans"
cask "font-firago"
cask "font-hack-nerd-font"
cask "font-hermit"
cask "font-victor-mono-nerd-font"
cask "font-victor-mono"
cask "ghostty"
cask "lm-studio"
cask "mullvad-browser"
cask "ollama"
cask "postman"
cask "raycast"
cask "rectangle"
cask "steam"
cask "visual-studio-code"
cask "zed"
```

This is a more or less official list of tools I use on a daily basis.

## Post-Setup

Once your Mac setup is complete,
it's a good idea to test your system
to ensure everything is running smoothly.

Start by opening your essential applications
to check if they launch properly
and perform as expected.

Verify your internet connection and Bluetooth functionality,
ensuring that devices like headphones, printers, or external keyboards
are properly paired.

Check your system preferences again
to confirm that the settings are to your liking,
particularly in terms of privacy, notifications, and security.

Finally, create a Time Machine backup or other backup of your system
to ensure your data is safe
and easily recoverable.

By running through these final checks,
you'll ensure that your Mac is fully prepared
for everyday use and development tasks.

## Wrapping Up

Switching from my trusty MacBook Pro
to the new 15" MacBook Air with the M4 processor
has been a game-changer.
The combination of lightweight design
and robust performance
means I can breeze through coding sessions,
tackle design work,
and dive into some light gaming—all
without constantly hunting for an outlet.
Plus, the sleek Midnight finish?
Definitely a head-turner.

If you're on the fence about making the switch,
I'd say go for it.
The MacBook Air with M4 isn't just a pretty face;
it's a powerhouse
that adapts to both the hustle
and the downtime.
